NewJeans full-group return derailed as Ador ends Danielle’s contract
By Kwon Mee-yoo
Published Dec 29, 2025 12:12 pm KST
Updated Dec 29, 2025 1:45 pm KST

NewJeans’ full-member comeback is thrown into doubt after Ador announced the termination of its exclusive contract with member Danielle.

In its official statement released Monday, Ador outlined the status of ongoing discussions with Minji, Hanni and Danielle, who had previously expressed a willingness to return to the company after the Seoul Central District Court ruled on Oct. 30 that all five members must honor their exclusive contracts with Ador through 2029.

"Following the court's ruling, we’ve held numerous conversations with Minji, Hanni, Danielle and their families,” the label said in the statement. “Hanni, along with her family, visited Korea and engaged in discussions with us. Through sincere dialogue, she made the decision to remain with Ador, respecting the court’s decision.”

The company added Minji is also continuing discussions with the agency, but it did not indicate whether she reached a final decision.

However, a different conclusion was reached regarding Danielle.

“We determined it would be difficult to continue with Danielle as a NewJeans member and Ador artist and notified her today of the termination of the exclusive contract,” the statement said.

Ador also revealed plans to pursue legal actions against Danielle’s family and former Ador CEO Min Hee-jin, citing their alleged roles in provoking the conflict that led to delays in the group’s activities and attempted departure from the agency.

According to Ador, discussions with the members revealed that they had long been exposed to “distorted and biased information,” which led to misunderstandings about the agency and contributed to the dispute.

The company noted rebuilding trust with fans and the public would require time and a clear presentation of facts.

“We agreed with the artists that in order to regain public trust and the support of fans, it is important to clarify the facts and resolve misunderstandings, even if that process takes time,” the statement said.

Ador added that it is currently discussing when and how to publicly address various controversies that arose during the conflict.

This latest development follows Ador’s announcement on Nov. 12 that Haerin and Hyein had returned to the label and that Minji, Hanni, and Danielle expressed a desire to return later that day through their legal representative.

With Hanni’s comeback now confirmed, Ador says three members are on track to resume activities. However, Danielle’s removal and Minji’s unresolved status leave the full-group reunion unlikely for now.

NewJeans originally debuted as a five-member lineup under the creative vision of Min and built its identity on a cohesive lineup, making any permanent change a significant shift for both the group’s brand and its fan base.

Ador concluded its statement by pledging to “do its best to resolve the situation smoothly and ensure NewJeans returns to their fans as soon as possible.”